Silent Winter: Our Chemical World & Chronic Illness	by Joanna Malaczynski-Moore
1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus	by Charles C. Mann
1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created	by Charles C. Mann
A Geography of Blood: Unearthing Memory from a Prairie Landscape	by Candace Savage
A Science on the Scales: The Rise of Canadian Atlantic Fisheries Biology, 1898-1939	by Jennifer Hubbard
A Temperate Empire: Making Climate Change in Early America	by Anya Zilberstein
Abundance: The Future Is Better Than You Think	by Peter Diamandis and Steven Kotler
Agricultural Involution: The Processes of Ecological Change in Indonesia	by Clifford Geertz
All the Fish in the Sea: Maximum Sustainable Yield and the Failure of Fisheries Management	by Carmel Finley
All We Can Save	by Ayana Elizabeth Johnson and Katharine Wilkinson (eds.)
Alternative Energy: Political, Economic, and Social Feasibility	by Christopher A. Simon
Animal, Vegetable, Miracle	by Barbara Kingsolver
AP 42 Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors
An Appeal to Reason: A Cool Look at Global Warming	by Nigel Lawson
Aqueous Wastes from Petroleum and Petrochemical Plants	by Milton R. Beychok
Atlas of Our Changing Environment	by United Nations Environment Programme
Awful Splendour: A Fire History of Canada	by Stephen J. Pyne
Babylon's Ark, The Incredible Wartime Rescue of the Baghdad Zoo	by Lawrence Anthony and Graham Spence
Beyond the Limits	by Donella Meadows, Dennis Meadows, Jorgen Randers
Beyond Oil: The View from Hubbert's Peak	by Kenneth S. Deffeyes
Big Coal: The Dirty Secret Behind America's Energy Future	by Jeff Goodell
A Big Fix: Radical Solutions for Australia's Environmental Crisis	by Ian Lowe
Biohazard: The Chilling True Story of the Largest Covert Biological Weapons Program in the World - Told from Inside by the Man Who Ran It	by Ken Alibek
Black Faces, White Spaces	by Carolyn Finney
Blessed Unrest: How the Largest Movement in the World Came into Being and Why No One Saw It Coming	by Paul Hawken
The Blue Economy	by Gunter Pauli
A Blueprint for Survival	by Edward Goldsmith and Robert Allen
Borderlands/La Frontera: The New Mestiza	by Gloria Anzaldúa
Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge, and the Teachings of Plants	by Robin Wall Kimmerer
Bringing Whales Ashore: Oceans and the Environment of Early Modern Japan	by Jakobina K. Arch
Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security	by Amory Lovins and L. Hunter Lovins
Caliban and the Witch: Women, the Body and Primitive Accumulation	by Silvia Federici
Canada's Deadly Secret: Saskatchewan Uranium and the Global Nuclear System	by Jim Harding
The Carbon War: Global Warming and the End of the Oil Era	by Jeremy Leggett
Catastrophe: Risk and Response	by Richard Posner
Challenging the Chip	by Ted Smith, David A. Sonnenfeld, and David Naguib Pellow
Changes in the Land: Indians, Colonists and the Ecology of New England	by William Cronon
The Chilling Stars	by Henrik Svensmark and Nigel Calder
Cinderella of the New South: A History of the Cottonseed Industry, 1855-1955	by Lynette Boney Wrenn
A Civil Action	by Jonathan Harr
The Clean Tech Revolution: The Next Big Growth and Investment Opportunity	by Ron Pernick and Clint Wilder
Climate Capitalism: Capitalism in the Age of Climate Change	by L. Hunter Lovins and Boyd Cohen
Climate Change and Global Energy Security: Technology and Policy Options	by Marilyn A. Brown and Benjamin K. Sovacool
Climate Change Denial: Heads in the Sand	by Haydn Washington and John Cook; foreword by Naomi Oreskes
Climate Code Red: The Case for Emergency Action	by David Spratt and Philip Sutton
Climate of Hope: How Cities, Businesses, and Citizens Can Save the Planet	by Michael Bloomberg and Carl Pope
Climber's Paradise: Making Canada's Mountain National Parks, 1906-1974	by PearlAnn Reichwein
The Coal Question	by William Stanley Jevons
Coal River: How a Few Brave Americans Took on a Powerful Company–and the Federal Government–to Save the Land They Love	by Michael Shnayerson
Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	by Jared Diamond
The Colors of Nature	by Alison H. Deming and Lauret E. Savoy
The Columbian Exchange	by Alfred W. Crosby
The Coming Global Superstorm	by Art Bell and Whitley Strieber
Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture	by International Water Management Institute and Earthscan
Confessions of an Eco-Warrior	by Dave Foreman
The Consumer's Guide to Effective Environmental Choices: Practical Advice from the Union of Concerned Scientists	by Michael Brower and Warren Leon
Contesting the Future of Nuclear Power: A Critical Global Assessment of Atomic Energy	by Benjamin K. Sovacool
A Contract with the Earth	by Newt Gingrich and Terry L. Maple
The Control of Nature	by John McPhee
Cool It: The Skeptical Environmentalist's Guide to Global Warming	by Bjørn Lomborg
Cradle to Cradle: Remaking the Way We Make Things	by Michael Braungart and William McDonough
The Death of Nature: Women, Ecology, and the Scientific Revolution	by Carolyn Merchant
The Deniers: The world-renowned scientists who stood up against global warming hysteria, political persecution, and fraud	by Lawrence Solomon
Desert Solitaire: A Season in the Wilderness	by Edward Abbey
Diagnosis Mercury: Money, Politics and Poison	by Jane Hightower
The Dirty Energy Dilemma: What's Blocking Clean Power in the United States	by Benjamin K. Sovacool
The Discovery of Global Warming	by Spencer R. Weart
Do Glaciers Listen? Local Knowledge, Colonial Encounters, and Social Imagination	by Julie Cruikshank
Doughnut Economics: Seven Ways to Think Like a 21st-Century Economist	by Kate Raworth
Dreamland: A Self-Help Manual for a Frightened Nation	by Andri Snær Magnason
Eaarth: Making a Life on a Tough New Planet	by Bill McKibben
Earth from the Air	by Yann Arthus-Bertrand (photographer)
Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit	by Al Gore
Eating Animals	by Jonathan Safran Foer
Ecodefense: A Field Guide To Monkeywrenching	by Dave Foreman and Bill Haywood (editors)
Ecological Imperialism: The Biological Expansion of Europe, 900-1900	by Alfred Crosby
Ecology: From Individuals to Ecosystems	by Michael Begon, Colin R. Townsend, and John L. Harper
The Economical Environmentalist	by Prashant Vaze
Ecotage!	by Sam Love
Encounters at the Heart of the World	by Elizabeth A. Fenn
Encounters with the Archdruid	by John McPhee
The End of the Line: How Overfishing Is Changing the World and What We Eat	by Charles Clover
The End of Nature	by Bill McKibben
The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World	by Paul Roberts (author)
Endemic Bird Areas of the World: Priorities for Biodiversity Conservation	by Alison J. Stattersfield, Michael J. Crosby, Adrian J. Long, and David C. Wege
Endgame (two volumes)	by Derrick Jensen
Energy and American Society: Thirteen Myths	by Benjamin K. Sovacool and Marilyn A. Brown (editors)
Energy Autonomy: The Economic, Social & Technological Case for Renewable Energy	by Hermann Scheer
Engines of Creation: The Coming Era of Nanotechnology	by K. Eric Drexler
Entangled Life: How Fungi Make Our Worlds, Change Our Minds & Shape Our Futures	by Merlin Sheldrake
Entropy: A New World View	by Jeremy Rifkin and Ted Howard
Enviro-Capitalists: Doing Good While Doing Well	by Terry Lee Anderson and Donald R. Leal
Environmental Principles and Policies: An Interdisciplinary Introduction	by Sharon Beder
An Essay on the Principle of Population	by Thomas Robert Malthus
The Everglades: River of Grass	by Marjory Stoneman Douglas
Everybody Loves a Good Drought	by P. Sainath
The Evolution of the Conservation Movement, 1850–1920 (collection of books and other publications)
Eyes Wide Open: Going Behind the Environmental Headlines	by Paul Fleischman
Factor 5: Transforming the Global Economy through 80% Increase in Resource Productivity	by Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker, et al.
Fallout: An American Nuclear Tragedy	by Philip L. Fradkin
Famine 1975! America's Decision: Who Will Survive?	by William Paddock, Paul Paddock
Farmageddon: The True Cost of Cheap Meat	by Philip Lymbery, Isabel Oakeshott
The Fate of the Earth	by Jonathan Schell
Fateful Harvest: The True Story of a Small Town, a Global Industry, and a Toxic Secret	by Duff Wilson
Feral: Searching for enchantment on the frontiers of rewilding	by George Monbiot
Field Notes from a Catastrophe: Man, Nature, and Climate Change	by Elizabeth Kolbert
Flammable: Environmental Suffering in an Argentine Shantytown	by Javier Auyero and Débora Swistun
Floating Coast: An Environmental History of the Bering Strait	by Bathsheba Demuth
Food Inc.: A Participant Guide: How Industrial Food Is Making Us Sicker, Fatter, and Poorer—And What You Can Do About It
The Frankenfood Myth: How Protest and Politics Threaten the Biotech Revolution	by Henry I. Miller, Gregory Conko
Free Market Environmentalism	by Terry L. Anderson, Donald R. Leal
Fundamentals of Stack Gas Dispersion (4th edition)	by Milton R. Beychok
The Gene Revolution: GM Crops and Unequal Development	by Sakiko Fukuda-Parr
The Ghost Map: The Story of London's Most Terrifying Epidemic - and How it Changed Science, Cities and the Modern World	by Steven Berlin Johnson
The Global Interior: Mineral Frontiers and American Power	by Megan Black
Global Spin: The Corporate Assault on Environmentalism	by Sharon Beder
God is Red: A Native View of Religion	by Vine Deloria Jr.
The God Species: Saving the Planet in the Age of Humans	by Mark Lynas
The Great Barrier Reef: Biology, Environment and Management	by Pat Hutchings, Mike Kingsford, Ove Hoegh-Guldberg
The Great Derangement: Climate Change and the Unthinkable	by Amitav Ghosh
The Green Bible
The Green Collar Economy: How One Solution Can Fix Our Two Biggest Problems	by Van Jones
The Green Crusade	by Charles T. Rubin
Green Illusions: The Dirty Secrets of Clean Energy and the Future of Environmentalism	by Ozzie Zehner
Green to Gold: How Smart Companies Use Environmental Strategy to Innovate, Create Value, and Build Competitive Advantage	by Daniel C. Esty
Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy	by Mark Diesendorf
Gusher of Lies: The Dangerous Delusions of Energy Independence	by Robert Bryce
Half Gone: Oil, Gas, Hot Air and the Global Energy Crisis	by Jeremy Leggett
Hard Choices: Climate Change in Canada	by Harold Coward, Andrew J. Weaver
Harmony: A New Way of Looking at Our World	by Charles, Prince of Wales, with Tony Juniper, Ian Skelly
Heaven and Earth: Global Warming — The Missing Science	by Ian Plimer
Hell and High Water: Global Warming — the Solution and the Politics — and What We Should Do	by Joseph J. Romm
High and Dry: John Howard, Climate Change and the Selling of Australia's Future	by Guy Pearse
The Hockey Stick and the Climate Wars: Dispatches from the Front Lines	by Michael E. Mann
Hot, Flat, and Crowded: Why We Need a Green Revolution—And How It Can Renew America	by Thomas L. Friedman
How to Live a Low-Carbon Life: The Individual's Guide to Stopping Climate Change	by Chris Goodall
Human Ecology, Human Economy: Ideas for an Ecologically Sustainable Future	by Mark Diesendorf and Clive Hamilton
The Hundred Year Lie: How Food And Medicine Are Destroying Your Health	by Randall Fitzgerald
The Hype about Hydrogen: Fact and Fiction in the Race to Save the Climate	by Joseph J. Romm
The Improving State of the World: Why We're Living Longer, Healthier, More Comfortable Lives On a Cleaner Planet	by Indur M. Goklany
An Inconvenient Truth: The Planetary Emergency of Global Warming and What We Can Do About It	by Al Gore
An Introduction to Sustainable Development	by Peter P. Rogers, with Kazi F. Jalal, John A. Boyd
The Invention of Nature: Alexander von Humboldt's New World	by Andrea Wulf
It's a Matter of Survival	by Anita Gordon, David Suzuki
Kick The Fossil Fuel Habit: 10 Clean Technologies to Save Our World	by Tom Rand
Killer Company: James Hardie Exposed	by Matt Peacock
Last Chance to See	by Douglas Adams, Mark Carwardine
Last Child in the Woods: Saving Our Children From Nature-Deficit Disorder	by Richard Louv
Latin American World Model	by Amilcar Herrera, Hugo Scolnick, et al.
The Lay of the Land: Metaphor As Experience and History in American Life and Letters	by Annette Kolodny
The Legacy of Luna	by Julia Butterfly Hill
Life in 2050	by Ulrich Eberl
The Limits to Growth	by Donella Meadows, Dennis Meadows, Jørgen Randers, William W. Behrens III
Living in the Hothouse: How Global Warming Affects Australia	by Ian Lowe
The Living Soil	by Lady Eve Balfour
The Long Emergency: Surviving the Converging Catastrophes of the Twenty-first Century	by James Howard Kunstler
The Machine in Neptune's Garden: Historical Perspectives on Technology and the Marine Environment	by Helen M. Rozwadowski, David K. van Keuren
Making Peace with the Planet	by Barry Commoner
Man and Nature	by George Perkins Marsh
Managing Urban America	by David R. Morgan, Robert E. England, John Peter Pelissero
Megaprojects and Risk: An Anatomy of Ambition	by Bent Flyvbjerg, Nils Bruzelius, Werner Rothengatter
Memory Lands: King Philip's War and the Place of Violence in the Northeast	by Christine M. DeLucia
Merchants of Doubt: How a Handful of Scientists Obscured the Truth on Issues from Tobacco Smoke to Global Warming	by Naomi Oreskes, Erik M. Conway
Millennium: Tribal Wisdom and the Modern World	by David Maybury-Lewis
Mira Lloyd Dock and the Progressive Era Conservation Movement	by Susan Rimby
The Moral Case for Fossil Fuels	by Alex Epstein
The Mushroom at the End of the World: On the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins	by Anna Tsing
Natural Capitalism: Creating the Next Industrial Revolution	by Paul Hawken, Amory Lovins, Hunter Lovins
A Nature Conservation Review (2 volumes)	by Derek Ratcliffe
Nature, Place, and Story: Rethinking Historic Sites in Canada	by Claire Elizabeth Campbell
The Navajo People and Uranium Mining	by Doug Brugge, Timothy Benally, Esther Yazzie-Lewis
The New Green Consumer Guide	by Julia Hailes
No One Is Too Small to Make a Difference	by Greta Thunberg
Non-Nuclear Futures: The Case for an Ethical Energy Strategy	by Amory B. Lovins, John H. Price
Nourishing the Planet
The Omnivore's Dilemma: A Natural History of Four Meals	by Michael Pollan
Open Veins of Latin America: Five Centuries of the Pillage of a Continent	by Eduardo Galeano
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth	by Buckminster Fuller
Our Angry Earth: A Ticking Ecological Bomb	by Isaac Asimov, Frederik Pohl
Our Choice: A Plan to Solve the Climate Crisis	by Al Gore
Our Plundered Planet	by Henry Fairfield Osborn, Jr.
Our Posthuman Future: Consequences of the Biotechnology Revolution	by Francis Fukuyama
Our Stolen Future	by Theo Colborn, Dianne Dumanoski, John Peterson Myers
Our Synthetic Environment	by Murray Bookchin (pseudonym "Lewis Herber")
Out of Control: The New Biology of Machines, Social Systems, and the Economic World	by Kevin Kelly (editor)
Out of Gas: The End of the Age of Oil	by David Goodstein
The Oyster Question: Scientists, Watermen, and the Maryland Chesapeake Bay since 1880	by Christine Keiner
The Party's Over: Oil, War, and the Fate of Industrial Societies	by Richard Heinberg
The Pesticide Question: Environment, Economics and Ethics	by David Pimentel (scientist), Hugh Lehman (editors)
Pilgrim at Tinker Creek	by Annie Dillard
Plows, Plagues and Petroleum: How Humans Took Control of Climate	by William Ruddiman
Plutopia: Nuclear Families, Atomic Cities, and the Great Soviet and American Plutonium Disasters	by Kate Brown
Political Animals and Animal Politics	by Marcel Wissenburg, David Schlosberg
The Population Bomb	by Paul R. Ehrlich
Population Control: Real Costs, Illusory Benefits	by Steven W. Mosher
Power Down: Options and Actions for a Post-Carbon World	by Richard Heinberg
Power Hungry: The Myths of "Green" Energy and the Real Fuels of the Future	by Robert Bryce
Power, Justice, and the Environment: A Critical Appraisal of the Environmental Justice Movement	by David Pellow and Bob Brulle (eds)
Power, Profit and Protest: Australian Social Movements and Globalisation	by Verity Burgmann
Primate Visions: Gender, Race, and Nature in the World of Modern Science	by Donna Haraway
Prosperity Without Growth	by Tim Jackson (economist)
Pumpkin: The Curious History of an American Icon	by Cindy Ott
Putting biodiversity on the map: priority areas for global conservation	by C. J. Bibby, et al.
Reaction Time: Climate Change and the Nuclear Option	by Ian Lowe
The Real Global Warming Disaster (Is The Obsession With 'Climate Change' Turning Out To Be the Most Costly Scientific Blunder In History?)	by Christopher Booker
Red Sky at Morning: America and the Crisis of the Global Environment	by James Gustave Speth
Reflections in Bullough's Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England	by Diana Muir
Refuge: An Unnatural History of Family and Place	by Terry Tempest Williams
Renewable Electricity and the Grid: The Challenge of Variability	by Godfrey Boyle
Requiem for a Species: Why We Resist the Truth about Climate Change	by Clive Hamilton
The Revenge of Gaia: Why the Earth is Fighting Back - and How we Can Still Save Humanity	by James Lovelock
Risk Governance: Coping with Uncertainty in a Complex World	by [1]Ortwin Renn
River of Renewal: Myth and History in the Klamath Basin	by Stephen Most
The Riverkeepers: Two Activists Fight to Reclaim Our Environment as a Basic Human Right	by John Cronin (environmental author) and Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. (foreword by Al Gore)
Road to Survival	by William Vogt
The Sacred Balance	by David Suzuki
A Sand County Almanac	by Aldo Leopold
Science Under Siege: The Politicians' War on Nature and Truth	by Todd Wilkinson
Scorched: South Africa's Changing Climate	by Leonie Joubert
Scorcher: The Dirty Politics of Climate Change	by Clive Hamilton
The Sea Around Us	by Rachel Carson
Secrets and Lies	by Nicky Hager and Bob Burton
Selling Solar: The Diffusion of Renewable Energy in Emerging Markets	by Damian Miller
Sensing Changes: Technologies, Environments, and the Everyday, 1953-2003	by Joy Parr
The Shamba Raiders: Memories of a Game Warden	by Bruce Kinloch
Shaped by the West Wind: Nature and History in Georgian Bay	by Claire Elizabeth Campbell
A Short History of Progress	by Ronald Wright
Siberia, Siberia	by Valentin Rasputin
Silence of the Songbirds	by Bridget Stutchbury
Silent Spring	by Rachel Carson
Silent Spring & other writings on environment	by Rachel Carson
Six Degrees: Our Future on a Hotter Planet	by Mark Lynas
The Sixth Extinction: An Unnatural History	by Elizabeth Kolbert
The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World	by Bjørn Lomborg
Small Is Beautiful: A Study of Economics As If People Mattered	by E. F. Schumacher
Small Is Profitable: The Hidden Economic Benefits of Making Electrical Resources the Right Size	by Amory Lovins, et al.
State of the World	by Worldwatch Institute
State of the World 2010: Transforming Cultures: From Consumerism to Sustainability	by Erik Assadourian, et al.
States of Nature: Conserving Canada's Wildlife in the Twentieth Century	by Tina Loo
Staying with the Trouble: Making Kin in the Chthulucene	by Donna Haraway
Storm World: Hurricanes, Politics, and the Battle Over Global Warming	by Chris Mooney
Storms of My Grandchildren: The Truth About the Coming Climate Catastrophe and Our Last Chance to Save Humanity	by James Hansen
Straight Up: America's Fiercest Climate Blogger Takes on the Status Quo Media, Politicians, and Clean Energy Solutions	by Joseph J. Romm
Struggle for the Land: Native North American Resistance to Genocide, Ecocide and Colonization	by Ward Churchill
Surviving the Century: Facing Climate Chaos and Other Global Challenges	by Herbert Girardet (editor)
Taken By Storm: The Troubled Science, Policy and Politics of Global Warming	by Christopher Essex and Ross McKitrick
Tasmania's Wilderness Battles: A History	by Greg Buckman
Ten Technologies to Save the Planet (first edition) or Ten Technologies to Fix Energy and Climate (second edition)	by Chris Goodall
This Changes Everything: Capitalism vs. the Climate	by Naomi Klein
This Fissured Land: An Ecological History of India	by Madhav Gadgil and Ramachandra Guha
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World	by Peter Tertzakian
Toms River: A Story of Science and Salvation	by Dan Fagin
Trading Up: Consumer and Environmental Regulation in a Global Economy	by David Vogel
Twisted: The Distorted Mathematics of Greenhouse Denial	by Ian G. Enting
The Ultimate Resource	by Julian Lincoln Simon
Unbowed: A Memoir	by Wangari Maathai
The Unfinished Twentieth Century	by Jonathan Schell
Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 Years	by Siegfried Fred Singer and Dennis T. Avery
The Upside of Down: Catastrophe, Creativity, and the Renewal of Civilization	by Thomas Homer-Dixon
Voices from the Gathering Storm: The Web of Ecological-Societal Crisis	by Joseph C. Arcos, Mary F. Angus, and Frederick J. DiCarlo, eds. (18 contributors)
Walden	by Henry David Thoreau
Wave: Life and Memories after the Tsunami	by Sonali Deraniyagala
The Weather Makers: The History and Future Impact of Climate Change	by Tim Flannery
The Weather of the Future: Heat Waves, Extreme Storms, and Other Scenes From a Climate-Changed Planet	by Heidi Cullen
Wet Prairie: People, Land, and Water in Agricultural Manitoba	by Shannon Stunden Bower
When Corporations Rule the World	by David Korten
Whole Earth Discipline: An Ecopragmatist Manifesto	by Stewart Brand
Why We Disagree About Climate Change: Understanding Controversy, Inaction and Opportunity	by Mike Hulme
Wild Law: A Manifesto for Earth Justice	by Cormac Cullinan
Wild Solutions: How Biodiversity is Money in the Bank	by Andrew Beattie and Paul R. Ehrlich
Wildlife Wars: My Fight to Save Africa's Natural Treasures	by Richard Leakey and Virginia Morell
The Windward Road: Adventures of a Naturalist on Remote Caribbean Shores	by Archie Carr
Winning the Oil Endgame: Innovation for Profits, Jobs and Security	by Amory Lovins
Wintergreen	by Robert Michael Pyle
The World Without Us	by Alan Weisman
Worms Eat My Garbage: How to Set Up & Maintain a Worm Composting System	by Mary Arlene Appelhof
